.github/README.md, before:

# Safe-DS DSL

[![Visual Studio Marketplace Version](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/safe-ds.safe-ds)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=safe-ds.safe-ds)
[![Main](https://github.com/Safe-DS/DSL/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Safe-DS/DSL/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Safe-DS/DSL/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=ma0ytglhO1)](https://codecov.io/gh/Safe-DS/DSL)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/safe-ds-dsl/badge/?version=stable)](https://dsl.safeds.com)

Safely develop Data Science programs with a statically checked domain specific language (DSL) and integrated tools for data
inspection.

![demo](../docs/img/readme/demo.gif)

## Installation

1. Get the latest extension for [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) from the
   [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=safe-ds.safe-ds). This sets up a
   complete _development environment_ for Safe-DS programs.
2. To _execute_ Safe-DS programs, the [Safe-DS Runner](https://github.com/Safe-DS/Runner) has to be installed and
   configured additionally:
    1. Install [Python](https://www.python.org/) (3.11 or 3.12).
    2. Run `pip install "safe-ds-runner>=0.10.0,<0.11.0"` in a command line to download the latest matching Runner version
       from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/safe-ds-runner/).
    3. If the Visual Studio Code extension cannot start the runner, adjust the setting `safe-ds.runner.command`.
       Enter the absolute path to the Runner executable.

## Documentation

You can find the full documentation [here](https://dsl.safeds.com).

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from everyone. As a starting point, check the following resources:

* [Contributing page](https://github.com/Safe-DS/DSL/contribute)

If you need further help, please [use our discussion forum][forum].

[forum]: https://github.com/orgs/Safe-DS/discussions

Commit message:

docs: improve global structure (#1023)
Closes #1029

### Summary of Changes

* Separate explanation of the pipeline and the stub language.
* Explain segments after comments. They are not needed to get started.
* Improve home page.
* Improve installation guide.
* Improve home page of language reference.
* Improve documentation of packages.

.github/README.md, after:

# Safe-DS DSL

[![Visual Studio Marketplace Version](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/safe-ds.safe-ds)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=safe-ds.safe-ds)
[![Main](https://github.com/Safe-DS/DSL/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Safe-DS/DSL/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Safe-DS/DSL/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=ma0ytglhO1)](https://codecov.io/gh/Safe-DS/DSL)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/safe-ds-dsl/badge/?version=stable)](https://dsl.safeds.com)

Safely develop Data Science programs with a statically checked domain specific language (DSL) and integrated tools for data
inspection.

![demo](../docs/img/home/demo.gif)

## Installation

To set up a powerful _integrated development environment_ (_IDE_) for Safe-DS, follow these steps:

1. **Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)** (VS Code).
2. **Install the [Safe-DS extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=safe-ds.safe-ds)** for VS Code.

To run Safe-DS programs, you also need the [Safe-DS Runner](https://github.com/Safe-DS/Runner):

1. **Install [Python](https://www.python.org/) (3.11 or 3.12)**. Make sure to add Python to your
   system's `PATH` during installation. Verify installation by running `python --version` in a
   command line. You should get output similar to `Python 3.12.2`.
2. **Open VS Code**.
3. **Open the command palette** (Menu bar > View > Command Palette).
4. **Type `Install the Safe-DS Runner`**.
5. **Press ++enter++**. Installation may take a few minutes, since it downloads and installs several large libraries
   like PyTorch.

## Documentation

You can find the full documentation [here](https://dsl.safeds.com).

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from everyone. As a starting point, check the following resources:

* [Contributing page](https://github.com/Safe-DS/DSL/contribute)

If you need further help, please [use our discussion forum][forum].

[forum]: https://github.com/orgs/Safe-DS/discussions
