docs/stdlib/safeds/ml/classical/regression/Regressor.md, before:

# `#!sds abstract class` Regressor {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor data-toc-label='Regressor'}

Abstract base class for all regressors.

??? quote "Source code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="8"
    class Regressor {
        /**
         * Create a copy of this regressor and fit it with the given training data.
         *
         * This regressor is not modified.
         *
         * @param trainingSet The training data containing the feature and target vectors.
         *
         * @result fittedRegressor The fitted regressor.
         */
        @Pure
        fun fit(
            @PythonName("training_set") trainingSet: TaggedTable
        ) -> fittedRegressor: Regressor
    
        /**
         * Predict a target vector using a dataset containing feature vectors. The model has to be trained first.
         *
         * @param dataset The dataset containing the feature vectors.
         *
         * @result prediction A dataset containing the given feature vectors and the predicted target vector.
         */
        @Pure
        fun predict(
            dataset: Table
        ) -> prediction: TaggedTable
    
        /**
         * Check if the classifier is fitted.
         *
         * @result isFitted Whether the regressor is fitted.
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("is_fitted")
        fun isFitted() -> isFitted: Boolean
    
        /**
         * Compute the mean squared error (MSE) on the given data.
         *
         * @param validationOrTestSet The validation or test set.
         *
         * @result meanSquaredError The calculated mean squared error (the average of the distance of each individual row squared).
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("mean_squared_error")
        fun meanSquaredError(
            @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
        ) -> meanSquaredError: Float
    
        /**
         * Compute the mean absolute error (MAE) of the regressor on the given data.
         *
         * @param validationOrTestSet The validation or test set.
         *
         * @result meanAbsoluteError The calculated mean absolute error (the average of the distance of each individual row).
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("mean_absolute_error")
        fun meanAbsoluteError(
            @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
        ) -> meanAbsoluteError: Float
    }
    ```

## `#!sds fun` fit {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.fit data-toc-label='fit'}

Create a copy of this regressor and fit it with the given training data.

This regressor is not modified.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `trainingSet` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | The training data containing the feature and target vectors. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `fittedRegressor` | [`Regressor`][safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor] | The fitted regressor. |

??? quote "Source code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="18"
    @Pure
    fun fit(
        @PythonName("training_set") trainingSet: TaggedTable
    ) -> fittedRegressor: Regressor
    ```

## `#!sds fun` isFitted {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.isFitted data-toc-label='isFitted'}

Check if the classifier is fitted.

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `isFitted` | [`Boolean`][safeds.lang.Boolean] | Whether the regressor is fitted. |

??? quote "Source code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="40"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("is_fitted")
    fun isFitted() -> isFitted: Boolean
    ```

## `#!sds fun` meanAbsoluteError {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.meanAbsoluteError data-toc-label='meanAbsoluteError'}

Compute the mean absolute error (MAE) of the regressor on the given data.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `validationOrTestSet` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | The validation or test set. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `meanAbsoluteError` | [`Float`][safeds.lang.Float] | The calculated mean absolute error (the average of the distance of each individual row). |

??? quote "Source code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="64"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("mean_absolute_error")
    fun meanAbsoluteError(
        @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
    ) -> meanAbsoluteError: Float
    ```

## `#!sds fun` meanSquaredError {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.meanSquaredError data-toc-label='meanSquaredError'}

Compute the mean squared error (MSE) on the given data.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `validationOrTestSet` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | The validation or test set. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `meanSquaredError` | [`Float`][safeds.lang.Float] | The calculated mean squared error (the average of the distance of each individual row squared). |

??? quote "Source code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="51"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("mean_squared_error")
    fun meanSquaredError(
        @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
    ) -> meanSquaredError: Float
    ```

## `#!sds fun` predict {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.predict data-toc-label='predict'}

Predict a target vector using a dataset containing feature vectors. The model has to be trained first.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `dataset` | [`Table`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.Table] | The dataset containing the feature vectors. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `prediction` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | A dataset containing the given feature vectors and the predicted target vector. |

??? quote "Source code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="30"
    @Pure
    fun predict(
        dataset: Table
    ) -> prediction: TaggedTable
    ```

Commit message:

docs: clearly differentiate implementation code and stub code (#1037)
Closes #1034

### Summary of Changes

In the library docs, replace the words "source code" with either "stub
code" or "implementation code" depending on whether a declaration has an
implementation in Safe-DS (pipeline/segment).

docs/stdlib/safeds/ml/classical/regression/Regressor.md, after:

# `#!sds abstract class` Regressor {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor data-toc-label='Regressor'}

Abstract base class for all regressors.

??? quote "Stub code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="8"
    class Regressor {
        /**
         * Create a copy of this regressor and fit it with the given training data.
         *
         * This regressor is not modified.
         *
         * @param trainingSet The training data containing the feature and target vectors.
         *
         * @result fittedRegressor The fitted regressor.
         */
        @Pure
        fun fit(
            @PythonName("training_set") trainingSet: TaggedTable
        ) -> fittedRegressor: Regressor
    
        /**
         * Predict a target vector using a dataset containing feature vectors. The model has to be trained first.
         *
         * @param dataset The dataset containing the feature vectors.
         *
         * @result prediction A dataset containing the given feature vectors and the predicted target vector.
         */
        @Pure
        fun predict(
            dataset: Table
        ) -> prediction: TaggedTable
    
        /**
         * Check if the classifier is fitted.
         *
         * @result isFitted Whether the regressor is fitted.
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("is_fitted")
        fun isFitted() -> isFitted: Boolean
    
        /**
         * Compute the mean squared error (MSE) on the given data.
         *
         * @param validationOrTestSet The validation or test set.
         *
         * @result meanSquaredError The calculated mean squared error (the average of the distance of each individual row squared).
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("mean_squared_error")
        fun meanSquaredError(
            @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
        ) -> meanSquaredError: Float
    
        /**
         * Compute the mean absolute error (MAE) of the regressor on the given data.
         *
         * @param validationOrTestSet The validation or test set.
         *
         * @result meanAbsoluteError The calculated mean absolute error (the average of the distance of each individual row).
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("mean_absolute_error")
        fun meanAbsoluteError(
            @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
        ) -> meanAbsoluteError: Float
    }
    ```

## `#!sds fun` fit {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.fit data-toc-label='fit'}

Create a copy of this regressor and fit it with the given training data.

This regressor is not modified.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `trainingSet` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | The training data containing the feature and target vectors. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `fittedRegressor` | [`Regressor`][safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor] | The fitted regressor. |

??? quote "Stub code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="18"
    @Pure
    fun fit(
        @PythonName("training_set") trainingSet: TaggedTable
    ) -> fittedRegressor: Regressor
    ```

## `#!sds fun` isFitted {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.isFitted data-toc-label='isFitted'}

Check if the classifier is fitted.

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `isFitted` | [`Boolean`][safeds.lang.Boolean] | Whether the regressor is fitted. |

??? quote "Stub code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="40"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("is_fitted")
    fun isFitted() -> isFitted: Boolean
    ```

## `#!sds fun` meanAbsoluteError {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.meanAbsoluteError data-toc-label='meanAbsoluteError'}

Compute the mean absolute error (MAE) of the regressor on the given data.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `validationOrTestSet` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | The validation or test set. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `meanAbsoluteError` | [`Float`][safeds.lang.Float] | The calculated mean absolute error (the average of the distance of each individual row). |

??? quote "Stub code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="64"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("mean_absolute_error")
    fun meanAbsoluteError(
        @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
    ) -> meanAbsoluteError: Float
    ```

## `#!sds fun` meanSquaredError {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.meanSquaredError data-toc-label='meanSquaredError'}

Compute the mean squared error (MSE) on the given data.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `validationOrTestSet` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | The validation or test set. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `meanSquaredError` | [`Float`][safeds.lang.Float] | The calculated mean squared error (the average of the distance of each individual row squared). |

??? quote "Stub code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="51"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("mean_squared_error")
    fun meanSquaredError(
        @PythonName("validation_or_test_set") validationOrTestSet: TaggedTable
    ) -> meanSquaredError: Float
    ```

## `#!sds fun` predict {#safeds.ml.classical.regression.Regressor.predict data-toc-label='predict'}

Predict a target vector using a dataset containing feature vectors. The model has to be trained first.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `dataset` | [`Table`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.Table] | The dataset containing the feature vectors. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `prediction` | [`TaggedTable`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.TaggedTable] | A dataset containing the given feature vectors and the predicted target vector. |

??? quote "Stub code in `regressor.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="30"
    @Pure
    fun predict(
        dataset: Table
    ) -> prediction: TaggedTable
    ```
