packages/safe-ds-lang/tests/resources/generation/markdown/classes/documented/generated/tests/generation/markdown/classes/documented/MyClass6.md, before:

# `#!sds abstract class` MyClass6 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6 data-toc-label='MyClass6'}

Description of MyClass6.

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="38"
    class MyClass6 {
        /**
         * Description of MyClass7.
         */
        class MyClass7 {
            /**
             * Description of myAttribute4.
             */
            attr myAttribut4: Int
            /**
             * Description of myAttribute3.
             */
            attr myAttribute3: Int
        }
    
        /**
         * Description of MyEnum1.
         */
        enum MyEnum1
    
        /**
         * Description of myFunction1.
         */
        @Pure fun myFunction1()
        /**
         * Description of myFunction2.
         */
        @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute1.
         */
        attr myAttribute1: MyClass1
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute2.
         */
        static attr myAttribute2: Float
    }
    ```

## `#!sds attr` myAttribute1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myAttribute1 data-toc-label='myAttribute1'}

Description of myAttribute1.

**Type:** [`MyClass1`][tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass1]

## `#!sds fun` myFunction1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myFunction1 data-toc-label='myFunction1'}

Description of myFunction1.

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="61"
    @Pure fun myFunction1()
    ```

## `#!sds static attr` myAttribute2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myAttribute2 data-toc-label='myAttribute2'}

Description of myAttribute2.

**Type:** `#!sds Float`

## `#!sds static fun` myFunction2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myFunction2 data-toc-label='myFunction2'}

Description of myFunction2.

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="65"
    @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    ```

## `#!sds abstract class` MyClass7 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyClass7 data-toc-label='MyClass7'}

Description of MyClass7.

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="42"
    class MyClass7 {
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute4.
         */
        attr myAttribut4: Int
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute3.
         */
        attr myAttribute3: Int
    }
    ```

### `#!sds attr` myAttribut4 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyClass7.myAttribut4 data-toc-label='myAttribut4'}

Description of myAttribute4.

**Type:** `#!sds Int`

### `#!sds attr` myAttribute3 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyClass7.myAttribute3 data-toc-label='myAttribute3'}

Description of myAttribute3.

**Type:** `#!sds Int`

## `#!sds enum` MyEnum1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyEnum1 data-toc-label='MyEnum1'}

Description of MyEnum1.

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="56"
    enum MyEnum1
    ```

Commit message:

docs: clearly differentiate implementation code and stub code (#1037)
Closes #1034

### Summary of Changes

In the library docs, replace the words "source code" with either "stub
code" or "implementation code" depending on whether a declaration has an
implementation in Safe-DS (pipeline/segment).

packages/safe-ds-lang/tests/resources/generation/markdown/classes/documented/generated/tests/generation/markdown/classes/documented/MyClass6.md, after:

# `#!sds abstract class` MyClass6 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6 data-toc-label='MyClass6'}

Description of MyClass6.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="38"
    class MyClass6 {
        /**
         * Description of MyClass7.
         */
        class MyClass7 {
            /**
             * Description of myAttribute4.
             */
            attr myAttribut4: Int
            /**
             * Description of myAttribute3.
             */
            attr myAttribute3: Int
        }
    
        /**
         * Description of MyEnum1.
         */
        enum MyEnum1
    
        /**
         * Description of myFunction1.
         */
        @Pure fun myFunction1()
        /**
         * Description of myFunction2.
         */
        @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute1.
         */
        attr myAttribute1: MyClass1
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute2.
         */
        static attr myAttribute2: Float
    }
    ```

## `#!sds attr` myAttribute1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myAttribute1 data-toc-label='myAttribute1'}

Description of myAttribute1.

**Type:** [`MyClass1`][tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass1]

## `#!sds fun` myFunction1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myFunction1 data-toc-label='myFunction1'}

Description of myFunction1.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="61"
    @Pure fun myFunction1()
    ```

## `#!sds static attr` myAttribute2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myAttribute2 data-toc-label='myAttribute2'}

Description of myAttribute2.

**Type:** `#!sds Float`

## `#!sds static fun` myFunction2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.myFunction2 data-toc-label='myFunction2'}

Description of myFunction2.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="65"
    @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    ```

## `#!sds abstract class` MyClass7 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyClass7 data-toc-label='MyClass7'}

Description of MyClass7.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="42"
    class MyClass7 {
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute4.
         */
        attr myAttribut4: Int
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute3.
         */
        attr myAttribute3: Int
    }
    ```

### `#!sds attr` myAttribut4 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyClass7.myAttribut4 data-toc-label='myAttribut4'}

Description of myAttribute4.

**Type:** `#!sds Int`

### `#!sds attr` myAttribute3 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyClass7.myAttribute3 data-toc-label='myAttribute3'}

Description of myAttribute3.

**Type:** `#!sds Int`

## `#!sds enum` MyEnum1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6.MyEnum1 data-toc-label='MyEnum1'}

Description of MyEnum1.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="56"
    enum MyEnum1
    ```
