packages/safe-ds-lang/tests/resources/generation/markdown/classes/documented/generated/tests/generation/markdown/classes/documented/MyClass8.md, before:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

# <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `MyClass8` {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass8 data-toc-label='[class] MyClass8'}

Description of MyClass8.

**Parent type:** [`MyClass6`][tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6]

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="94"
    class MyClass8 sub MyClass6 {
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute1.
         */
        attr myAttribute1: MyClass1
    }
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `myAttribute1` {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass8.myAttribute1 data-toc-label='[attribute] myAttribute1'}

Description of myAttribute1.

**Type:** [`MyClass1`][tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass1]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `myFunction1` {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass8.myFunction1 data-toc-label='[function] myFunction1'}

Description of myFunction1.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="68"
    @Pure fun myFunction1()
    ```

Commit message:

docs: add warning to generated files (#1208)
### Summary of Changes

Add a warning at the top of generated documentation files that they must
not be edited directly.

packages/safe-ds-lang/tests/resources/generation/markdown/classes/documented/generated/tests/generation/markdown/classes/documented/MyClass8.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. Instead, edit the corresponding stub file and execute `npm run docs:api`.)

# <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `MyClass8` {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass8 data-toc-label='[class] MyClass8'}

Description of MyClass8.

**Parent type:** [`MyClass6`][tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass6]

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="94"
    class MyClass8 sub MyClass6 {
        /**
         * Description of myAttribute1.
         */
        attr myAttribute1: MyClass1
    }
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `myAttribute1` {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass8.myAttribute1 data-toc-label='[attribute] myAttribute1'}

Description of myAttribute1.

**Type:** [`MyClass1`][tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass1]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `myFunction1` {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.documented.MyClass8.myFunction1 data-toc-label='[function] myFunction1'}

Description of myFunction1.

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="68"
    @Pure fun myFunction1()
    ```
