packages/safe-ds-lang/tests/resources/generation/markdown/classes/undocumented/generated/tests/generation/markdown/classes/undocumented/MyClass6.md, before:

# `#!sds abstract class` MyClass6 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6 data-toc-label='MyClass6'}

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="13"
    class MyClass6 {
        attr myAttribute1: Int
        static attr myAttribute2: Float
    
        @Pure fun myFunction1()
        @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    
        class MyClass7
        enum MyEnum1
    }
    ```

## `#!sds attr` myAttribute1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myAttribute1 data-toc-label='myAttribute1'}

**Type:** `#!sds Int`

## `#!sds fun` myFunction1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myFunction1 data-toc-label='myFunction1'}

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="17"
    @Pure fun myFunction1()
    ```

## `#!sds static attr` myAttribute2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myAttribute2 data-toc-label='myAttribute2'}

**Type:** `#!sds Float`

## `#!sds static fun` myFunction2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myFunction2 data-toc-label='myFunction2'}

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="18"
    @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    ```

## `#!sds abstract class` MyClass7 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.MyClass7 data-toc-label='MyClass7'}

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="20"
    class MyClass7
    ```

## `#!sds enum` MyEnum1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.MyEnum1 data-toc-label='MyEnum1'}

??? quote "Source code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="21"
    enum MyEnum1
    ```

Commit message:

feat: clearly differentiate implementation code and stub code

packages/safe-ds-lang/tests/resources/generation/markdown/classes/undocumented/generated/tests/generation/markdown/classes/undocumented/MyClass6.md, after:

# `#!sds abstract class` MyClass6 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6 data-toc-label='MyClass6'}

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="13"
    class MyClass6 {
        attr myAttribute1: Int
        static attr myAttribute2: Float
    
        @Pure fun myFunction1()
        @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    
        class MyClass7
        enum MyEnum1
    }
    ```

## `#!sds attr` myAttribute1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myAttribute1 data-toc-label='myAttribute1'}

**Type:** `#!sds Int`

## `#!sds fun` myFunction1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myFunction1 data-toc-label='myFunction1'}

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="17"
    @Pure fun myFunction1()
    ```

## `#!sds static attr` myAttribute2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myAttribute2 data-toc-label='myAttribute2'}

**Type:** `#!sds Float`

## `#!sds static fun` myFunction2 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.myFunction2 data-toc-label='myFunction2'}

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="18"
    @Pure static fun myFunction2()
    ```

## `#!sds abstract class` MyClass7 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.MyClass7 data-toc-label='MyClass7'}

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="20"
    class MyClass7
    ```

## `#!sds enum` MyEnum1 {#tests.generation.markdown.classes.undocumented.MyClass6.MyEnum1 data-toc-label='MyEnum1'}

??? quote "Stub code in `main.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="21"
    enum MyEnum1
    ```
