docs/DSL/pipeline-language/README.md, before:

# Pipeline Language

The pipeline language is the part of the Safe-DS DSL that is designed to solve specific machine learning problems. It has the following concepts:

-   [Packages][packages] help avoid conflicts that could arise if two declarations have the same name.
-   [Imports][imports] make declarations in other packages accessible.
-   [Pipelines][pipelines] define the entry point of a Machine Learning program.
-   [Steps][steps] encapsulate parts of a Machine Learning program and make them reusable.
-   [Statements][statements] are the instructions that are executed as part of a [pipeline][pipelines], [step][steps], or [block lambda][block-lambdas].
-   [Expressions][expressions] are computations that produce some value.
-   [Comments][comments] document the code.

Files that use the pipeline language must have the extension `.sdspipe`.

[packages]: ../common/packages.md
[imports]: ../common/imports.md
[pipelines]: pipelines.md
[steps]: steps.md
[statements]: statements.md
[expressions]: expressions.md
[block-lambdas]: expressions.md#block-lambdas
[comments]: ../common/comments.md

Commit message:

docs: replace "Machine Learning" with data science (#362)
### Summary of Changes

Replace the term "Machine Learning" with "data science" in the language
documentation.

docs/DSL/pipeline-language/README.md, after:

# Pipeline Language

The pipeline language is the part of the Safe-DS DSL that is designed to solve specific data science problems. It has the following concepts:

-   [Packages][packages] help avoid conflicts that could arise if two declarations have the same name.
-   [Imports][imports] make declarations in other packages accessible.
-   [Pipelines][pipelines] define the entry point of a data science program.
-   [Steps][steps] encapsulate parts of a data science program and make them reusable.
-   [Statements][statements] are the instructions that are executed as part of a [pipeline][pipelines], [step][steps], or [block lambda][block-lambdas].
-   [Expressions][expressions] are computations that produce some value.
-   [Comments][comments] document the code.

Files that use the pipeline language must have the extension `.sdspipe`.

[packages]: ../common/packages.md
[imports]: ../common/imports.md
[pipelines]: pipelines.md
[steps]: steps.md
[statements]: statements.md
[expressions]: expressions.md
[block-lambdas]: expressions.md#block-lambdas
[comments]: ../common/comments.md
