docs/api/safeds/lang/Int.md, before:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

# <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `Int` {#safeds.lang.Int data-toc-label='[class] Int'}

An integer.

**Parent type:** [`Number`][safeds.lang.Number]

**Examples:**

```sds
pipeline example {
    val int = 1;
}
```

??? quote "Stub code in `coreClasses.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="71"
    class Int sub Number {

        /**
         * Convert this integer to a floating-point number.
         *
         * @example
         * pipeline example {
         *     val float = 1.toFloat(); // 1.0
         * }
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonMacro("float($this)")
        fun toFloat() -> float: Float
    }
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `toFloat` {#safeds.lang.Int.toFloat data-toc-label='[function] toFloat'}

Convert this integer to a floating-point number.

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `float` | [`Float`][safeds.lang.Float] | - |

**Examples:**

```sds hl_lines="2"
pipeline example {
    val float = 1.toFloat(); // 1.0
}
```

??? quote "Stub code in `coreClasses.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="81"
    @Pure
    @PythonMacro("float($this)")
    fun toFloat() -> float: Float
    ```

Commit message:

docs: add warning to generated files (#1208)
### Summary of Changes

Add a warning at the top of generated documentation files that they must
not be edited directly.

docs/api/safeds/lang/Int.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. Instead, edit the corresponding stub file and execute `npm run docs:api`.)

# <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `Int` {#safeds.lang.Int data-toc-label='[class] Int'}

An integer.

**Parent type:** [`Number`][safeds.lang.Number]

**Examples:**

```sds
pipeline example {
    val int = 1;
}
```

??? quote "Stub code in `coreClasses.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="71"
    class Int sub Number {

        /**
         * Convert this integer to a floating-point number.
         *
         * @example
         * pipeline example {
         *     val float = 1.toFloat(); // 1.0
         * }
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonMacro("float($this)")
        fun toFloat() -> float: Float
    }
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `toFloat` {#safeds.lang.Int.toFloat data-toc-label='[function] toFloat'}

Convert this integer to a floating-point number.

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `float` | [`Float`][safeds.lang.Float] | - |

**Examples:**

```sds hl_lines="2"
pipeline example {
    val float = 1.toFloat(); // 1.0
}
```

??? quote "Stub code in `coreClasses.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="81"
    @Pure
    @PythonMacro("float($this)")
    fun toFloat() -> float: Float
    ```
