docs/api/safeds/data/tabular/containers/Row.md, before:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

# <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `Row` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row data-toc-label='[class] Row'}

A one-dimensional collection of named, heterogeneous values.

This class cannot be instantiated directly. It is only used for arguments of callbacks.

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="11"
    class Row {
        /**
         * The names of the columns in the row.
         */
        @PythonName("column_names") attr columnNames: List<String>
        /**
         * The number of columns in the row.
         */
        @PythonName("column_count") attr columnCount: Int
        /**
         * The schema of the row.
         */
        attr ^schema: Schema

        /**
         * Get the value of the specified column. This WILL LATER BE equivalent to using the `[]` operator (indexed access).
         *
         * @param name The name of the column.
         *
         * @result value The value of the column.
         *
         * @example
         * pipeline example {
         *     val table = Table({"col1": [1, 2], "col2": [3, 4]});
         *     val result = table.removeRows((row) -> row.getValue("col1").eq(1));
         *     // Table({"col1": [2], "col2": [4]})
         * }
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("get_value")
        fun getValue(
            name: String
        ) -> value: Cell<Any>

        /**
         * Get the type of the specified column.
         *
         * @param name The name of the column.
         *
         * @result type The type of the column.
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("get_column_type")
        fun getColumnType(
            name: String
        ) -> type: DataType

        /**
         * Check if the row has a column with the specified name.
         *
         * @param name The name of the column.
         *
         * @result hasColumn Whether the row has a column with the specified name.
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("has_column")
        fun hasColumn(
            name: String
        ) -> hasColumn: Boolean
    }
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `columnCount` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.columnCount data-toc-label='[attribute] columnCount'}

The number of columns in the row.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `columnNames` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.columnNames data-toc-label='[attribute] columnNames'}

The names of the columns in the row.

**Type:** [`List<String>`][safeds.lang.List]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `schema` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.schema data-toc-label='[attribute] schema'}

The schema of the row.

**Type:** [`Schema`][safeds.data.tabular.typing.Schema]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `getColumnType` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.getColumnType data-toc-label='[function] getColumnType'}

Get the type of the specified column.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | [`String`][safeds.lang.String] | The name of the column. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `type` | [`DataType`][safeds.data.tabular.typing.DataType] | The type of the column. |

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="52"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("get_column_type")
    fun getColumnType(
        name: String
    ) -> type: DataType
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `getValue` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.getValue data-toc-label='[function] getValue'}

Get the value of the specified column. This WILL LATER BE equivalent to using the `[]` operator (indexed access).

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | [`String`][safeds.lang.String] | The name of the column. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `value` | [`Cell<Any>`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.Cell] | The value of the column. |

**Examples:**

```sds hl_lines="3"
pipeline example {
    val table = Table({"col1": [1, 2], "col2": [3, 4]});
    val result = table.removeRows((row) -> row.getValue("col1").eq(1));
    // Table({"col1": [2], "col2": [4]})
}
```

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="39"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("get_value")
    fun getValue(
        name: String
    ) -> value: Cell<Any>
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `hasColumn` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.hasColumn data-toc-label='[function] hasColumn'}

Check if the row has a column with the specified name.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | [`String`][safeds.lang.String] | The name of the column. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `hasColumn` | [`Boolean`][safeds.lang.Boolean] | Whether the row has a column with the specified name. |

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="65"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("has_column")
    fun hasColumn(
        name: String
    ) -> hasColumn: Boolean
    ```

Commit message:

docs: add warning to generated files (#1208)
### Summary of Changes

Add a warning at the top of generated documentation files that they must
not be edited directly.

docs/api/safeds/data/tabular/containers/Row.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. Instead, edit the corresponding stub file and execute `npm run docs:api`.)

# <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `Row` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row data-toc-label='[class] Row'}

A one-dimensional collection of named, heterogeneous values.

This class cannot be instantiated directly. It is only used for arguments of callbacks.

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="11"
    class Row {
        /**
         * The names of the columns in the row.
         */
        @PythonName("column_names") attr columnNames: List<String>
        /**
         * The number of columns in the row.
         */
        @PythonName("column_count") attr columnCount: Int
        /**
         * The schema of the row.
         */
        attr ^schema: Schema

        /**
         * Get the value of the specified column. This WILL LATER BE equivalent to using the `[]` operator (indexed access).
         *
         * @param name The name of the column.
         *
         * @result value The value of the column.
         *
         * @example
         * pipeline example {
         *     val table = Table({"col1": [1, 2], "col2": [3, 4]});
         *     val result = table.removeRows((row) -> row.getValue("col1").eq(1));
         *     // Table({"col1": [2], "col2": [4]})
         * }
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("get_value")
        fun getValue(
            name: String
        ) -> value: Cell<Any>

        /**
         * Get the type of the specified column.
         *
         * @param name The name of the column.
         *
         * @result type The type of the column.
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("get_column_type")
        fun getColumnType(
            name: String
        ) -> type: DataType

        /**
         * Check if the row has a column with the specified name.
         *
         * @param name The name of the column.
         *
         * @result hasColumn Whether the row has a column with the specified name.
         */
        @Pure
        @PythonName("has_column")
        fun hasColumn(
            name: String
        ) -> hasColumn: Boolean
    }
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `columnCount` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.columnCount data-toc-label='[attribute] columnCount'}

The number of columns in the row.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `columnNames` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.columnNames data-toc-label='[attribute] columnNames'}

The names of the columns in the row.

**Type:** [`List<String>`][safeds.lang.List]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `schema` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.schema data-toc-label='[attribute] schema'}

The schema of the row.

**Type:** [`Schema`][safeds.data.tabular.typing.Schema]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `getColumnType` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.getColumnType data-toc-label='[function] getColumnType'}

Get the type of the specified column.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | [`String`][safeds.lang.String] | The name of the column. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `type` | [`DataType`][safeds.data.tabular.typing.DataType] | The type of the column. |

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="52"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("get_column_type")
    fun getColumnType(
        name: String
    ) -> type: DataType
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `getValue` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.getValue data-toc-label='[function] getValue'}

Get the value of the specified column. This WILL LATER BE equivalent to using the `[]` operator (indexed access).

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | [`String`][safeds.lang.String] | The name of the column. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `value` | [`Cell<Any>`][safeds.data.tabular.containers.Cell] | The value of the column. |

**Examples:**

```sds hl_lines="3"
pipeline example {
    val table = Table({"col1": [1, 2], "col2": [3, 4]});
    val result = table.removeRows((row) -> row.getValue("col1").eq(1));
    // Table({"col1": [2], "col2": [4]})
}
```

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="39"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("get_value")
    fun getValue(
        name: String
    ) -> value: Cell<Any>
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-function"></code> `hasColumn` {#safeds.data.tabular.containers.Row.hasColumn data-toc-label='[function] hasColumn'}

Check if the row has a column with the specified name.

**Parameters:**

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
|------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | [`String`][safeds.lang.String] | The name of the column. | - |

**Results:**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `hasColumn` | [`Boolean`][safeds.lang.Boolean] | Whether the row has a column with the specified name. |

??? quote "Stub code in `Row.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="65"
    @Pure
    @PythonName("has_column")
    fun hasColumn(
        name: String
    ) -> hasColumn: Boolean
    ```
