docs/api/safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversion.md, before:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

# :test_tube:{ title="Experimental" } <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `InputConversion` {#safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversion data-toc-label='[class] InputConversion'}

The input conversion for a neural network, defines the input parameters for the neural network.

**Type parameters:**

| Name | Upper Bound | Description | Default |
|------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `D` | [`Any?`][safeds.lang.Any] | The type of the full dataset. It's the input to `fit` and the output of `predict`. | - |
| `F` | [`Any?`][safeds.lang.Any] | The type of the features. It's the input to `predict`. | - |

**Inheritors:**

- [`InputConversionImageToColumn`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionImageToColumn]
- [`InputConversionImageToImage`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionImageToImage]
- [`InputConversionImageToTable`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionImageToTable]
- [`InputConversionTable`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionTable]
- [`InputConversionTimeSeries`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionTimeSeries]

??? quote "Stub code in `InputConversion.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="10"
    class InputConversion<D, in F>
    ```

Commit message:

docs: add warning to generated files (#1208)
### Summary of Changes

Add a warning at the top of generated documentation files that they must
not be edited directly.

docs/api/safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversion.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. Instead, edit the corresponding stub file and execute `npm run docs:api`.)

# :test_tube:{ title="Experimental" } <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `InputConversion` {#safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversion data-toc-label='[class] InputConversion'}

The input conversion for a neural network, defines the input parameters for the neural network.

**Type parameters:**

| Name | Upper Bound | Description | Default |
|------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `D` | [`Any?`][safeds.lang.Any] | The type of the full dataset. It's the input to `fit` and the output of `predict`. | - |
| `F` | [`Any?`][safeds.lang.Any] | The type of the features. It's the input to `predict`. | - |

**Inheritors:**

- [`InputConversionImageToColumn`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionImageToColumn]
- [`InputConversionImageToImage`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionImageToImage]
- [`InputConversionImageToTable`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionImageToTable]
- [`InputConversionTable`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionTable]
- [`InputConversionTimeSeries`][safeds.ml.nn.converters.InputConversionTimeSeries]

??? quote "Stub code in `InputConversion.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="10"
    class InputConversion<D, in F>
    ```
