docs/Stdlib/python/Tutorials/machine_learning.md, before:

# Machine Learning Tutorial

## Create SupervisedDataset

Here is a short introduction to train and predict with a machine learning model in safe-ds.

First we need to create a [SupervisedDataset][safe_ds.data.SupervisedDataset] from the training data.

```python
from safe_ds.data import Table, SupervisedDataset
from safe_ds.regression import LinearRegression

table = Table({"column1": [3, 4, 8, 6, 5],
               "column2": [2, 2, 1, 6, 3],
               "column3": [1, 1, 1, 1, 1],
               "target": [6, 7, 10, 13, 9]})

to_be_predicted_table = Table({
    "column1": [1, 1, 0, 2, 4],
    "column2": [2, 0, 5, 2, 7],
    "column3": [1, 4, 3, 2, 1]})

sup_dataset = SupervisedDataset(table, target_column="target")
```

[SupervisedDatasets][safe_ds.data.SupervisedDataset] are used in safe-DS to train supervised machine learning models
(e.g. [RandomForest][safe_ds.classification.RandomForest] for classification and
[LinearRegression][safe_ds.regression.LinearRegression] as a regression model), because they keep track of the target
vector. A [SupervisedDataset][safe_ds.data.SupervisedDataset] can be created from a [Table][safe_ds.data.Table] and
specifying the target vector in the table.

## Create and train model

In this code example, we want to predict the sum of a row. The `table` contains the target vector we want to
train with (the sum of the rows). The `to_predicted_table` is the table we want to make predictions with, so it
does not contain a target vector.

In order to train the [LinearRegression][safe_ds.regression.LinearRegression]-model we need to make the following calls
in safe-DS:

```python
linear_reg_model = LinearRegression()
linear_reg_model.fit(sup_dataset)
```

As we can see, a [LinearRegression][safe_ds.regression.LinearRegression]-object is created.

In safe-DS machine learning models are separated in different classes where the different fit and predictions methods
are implemented for the given machine learning model.

## Predicting new values

So in order to train a linear regression model we create a [LinearRegression][safe_ds.regression.LinearRegression]-object
and call then the [`.fit()`][safe_ds.regression._linear_regression.LinearRegression.fit]
-method on this object. Now the `linear_reg_model` is a fitted linear regression model, and we can call the
[`predict(dataset: SupervisedDataset)`][safe_ds.regression._linear_regression.LinearRegression.predict]-method
on this model.

```python
prediction = linear_reg_model.predict(dataset=to_be_predicted_table,
                                      target_name="predicted_values")
```

After we trained the `linear_reg_model`-object we can make predictions with the model. To do this we call the
[`predict(dataset: Table, target_name: Optional[str])`][safe_ds.regression._linear_regression.LinearRegression.predict]-method
on the trained model. The `target_name`-parameter is optional, so you do not need to specify it.
If you do not specify the `target_name`, the name of the `target_vector` in the given
[SupervisedDataset][safe_ds.data.SupervisedDataset] will be used.

## Results

So for the call above we will get the following output:

| column1 | column2 | column3 | target |
| ------- | ------- | ------- | ------ |
| 1       | 2       | 1       | 4.0    |
| 1       | 0       | 4       | 2.0    |
| 0       | 5       | 3       | 6.0    |
| 2       | 2       | 2       | 5.0    |
| 4       | 7       | 1       | 12.0   |

!!! note
    Your target-vector may differ from our result.

Commit message:

refactor!: replace `safe_ds` with `safeds` (#388)
Closes partially #372.

### Summary of Changes

* Rename `safe_ds` to `safeds`.
* Rename `safe_ds_runner` to `safeds_runner`.

---------

Co-authored-by: lars-reimann <lars-reimann@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Stdlib/python/Tutorials/machine_learning.md, after:

# Machine Learning Tutorial

## Create SupervisedDataset

Here is a short introduction to train and predict with a machine learning model in safe-ds.

First we need to create a [SupervisedDataset][safeds.data.SupervisedDataset] from the training data.

```python
from safeds.data import Table, SupervisedDataset
from safeds.regression import LinearRegression

table = Table({"column1": [3, 4, 8, 6, 5],
               "column2": [2, 2, 1, 6, 3],
               "column3": [1, 1, 1, 1, 1],
               "target": [6, 7, 10, 13, 9]})

to_be_predicted_table = Table({
    "column1": [1, 1, 0, 2, 4],
    "column2": [2, 0, 5, 2, 7],
    "column3": [1, 4, 3, 2, 1]})

sup_dataset = SupervisedDataset(table, target_column="target")
```

[SupervisedDatasets][safeds.data.SupervisedDataset] are used in safe-DS to train supervised machine learning models
(e.g. [RandomForest][safeds.classification.RandomForest] for classification and
[LinearRegression][safeds.regression.LinearRegression] as a regression model), because they keep track of the target
vector. A [SupervisedDataset][safeds.data.SupervisedDataset] can be created from a [Table][safeds.data.Table] and
specifying the target vector in the table.

## Create and train model

In this code example, we want to predict the sum of a row. The `table` contains the target vector we want to
train with (the sum of the rows). The `to_predicted_table` is the table we want to make predictions with, so it
does not contain a target vector.

In order to train the [LinearRegression][safeds.regression.LinearRegression]-model we need to make the following calls
in safe-DS:

```python
linear_reg_model = LinearRegression()
linear_reg_model.fit(sup_dataset)
```

As we can see, a [LinearRegression][safeds.regression.LinearRegression]-object is created.

In safe-DS machine learning models are separated in different classes where the different fit and predictions methods
are implemented for the given machine learning model.

## Predicting new values

So in order to train a linear regression model we create a [LinearRegression][safeds.regression.LinearRegression]-object
and call then the [`.fit()`][safeds.regression._linear_regression.LinearRegression.fit]
-method on this object. Now the `linear_reg_model` is a fitted linear regression model, and we can call the
[`predict(dataset: SupervisedDataset)`][safeds.regression._linear_regression.LinearRegression.predict]-method
on this model.

```python
prediction = linear_reg_model.predict(dataset=to_be_predicted_table,
                                      target_name="predicted_values")
```

After we trained the `linear_reg_model`-object we can make predictions with the model. To do this we call the
[`predict(dataset: Table, target_name: Optional[str])`][safeds.regression._linear_regression.LinearRegression.predict]-method
on the trained model. The `target_name`-parameter is optional, so you do not need to specify it.
If you do not specify the `target_name`, the name of the `target_vector` in the given
[SupervisedDataset][safeds.data.SupervisedDataset] will be used.

## Results

So for the call above we will get the following output:

| column1 | column2 | column3 | target |
| ------- | ------- | ------- | ------ |
| 1       | 2       | 1       | 4.0    |
| 1       | 0       | 4       | 2.0    |
| 0       | 5       | 3       | 6.0    |
| 2       | 2       | 2       | 5.0    |
| 4       | 7       | 1       | 12.0   |

!!! note
    Your target-vector may differ from our result.
