docs/Stdlib/python/Tutorials/visualization.md, before:

# Visualization

The following code will use a Jupyter Notebook environment.

First we need some data to visualize. For this we use the common example of the titanic disaster.

!!! note
You can download that dataset on [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic).

```python
from safe_ds.data import Table
data = Table.from_csv("path/to/your/data.csv")
```

Now we want to have look at what our dataset looks like. For this we use Jupyter Notebooks native display function.

```python
data    # calls display(data)
```

![Table](./Resources/Table.png)

Next some statistics.

```python
data.summary()  # returns a table with various statistics for each column
```

![Summary](./Resources/Summary.png)

As you can see here, the **idness** of the column _PassangerId_ is 1. This means, that every row has a unique value for
this column. Since this isn't helpful for our usecase we can drop it.

```python
data_cleaned = data.drop_columns(["PassangerId"])
```

Now we have a rough idea of what we are looking at. But we still don't really know a lot about our dataset.
So next we can start to plot a our columns against each other in a so called Heatmap, to understand which values relate to each other.

But since this type of diagramm only works for numerical values, we are going to use only those.

```python
from safe_ds.plotting import plot_correlation_heatmap

data_only_numerics = Table.from_columns(data_cleaned.list_columns_with_numerical_values())
plot_correlation_heatmap(data_only_numerics)
```

![Heatmap](./Resources/Heatmap.png)

As you can see, the columns _Fare_ and _Pclass_ (Passanger Class) seem to heavily correlate. Let's have another look at that.
We'll use a linechart to better understand their relationship.

```python
from safe_ds.plotting import plot_lineplot
plot_lineplot(data_cleaned, "Pclass", "Fare")
```

![Lineplot](./Resources/Lineplot.png)

We can conclude that tickets for first class rooms are much more expensive compared to second and third class. Also the difference between second and third is less pronounced.

Some other plots that might be useful are boxplots, histogams and scatterplots.

```python
from safe_ds.plotting import plot_boxplot, plot_histogram, plot_scatterplot

plot_boxplot(data_cleaned.get_column("Age"))
plot_histogram(data_cleaned.get_column("Fare"))
plot_scatterplot(data_cleaned, "Age", "Fare")
```

![Boxplot](./Resources/Boxplot.png)
![Histogram](./Resources/Histogram.png)
![Scatterplot](./Resources/Scatterplot.png)

Commit message:

feat: Add explanation for the hued area around the line graph, since it's not entierly clear what that is

docs/Stdlib/python/Tutorials/visualization.md, after:

# Visualization

The following code will use a Jupyter Notebook environment.

First we need some data to visualize. For this we use the common example of the titanic disaster.

!!! note
You can download that dataset on [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic).

```python
from safe_ds.data import Table
data = Table.from_csv("path/to/your/data.csv")
```

Now we want to have look at what our dataset looks like. For this we use Jupyter Notebooks native display function.

```python
data    # calls display(data)
```

![Table](./Resources/Table.png)

Next some statistics.

```python
data.summary()  # returns a table with various statistics for each column
```

![Summary](./Resources/Summary.png)

As you can see here, the **idness** of the column _PassangerId_ is 1. This means, that every row has a unique value for
this column. Since this isn't helpful for our usecase we can drop it.

```python
data_cleaned = data.drop_columns(["PassangerId"])
```

Now we have a rough idea of what we are looking at. But we still don't really know a lot about our dataset.
So next we can start to plot a our columns against each other in a so called Heatmap, to understand which values relate to each other.

But since this type of diagramm only works for numerical values, we are going to use only those.

```python
from safe_ds.plotting import plot_correlation_heatmap

data_only_numerics = Table.from_columns(data_cleaned.list_columns_with_numerical_values())
plot_correlation_heatmap(data_only_numerics)
```

![Heatmap](./Resources/Heatmap.png)

As you can see, the columns _Fare_ and _Pclass_ (Passanger Class) seem to heavily correlate. Let's have another look at that.
We'll use a linechart to better understand their relationship.

```python
from safe_ds.plotting import plot_lineplot
plot_lineplot(data_cleaned, "Pclass", "Fare")
```

![Lineplot](./Resources/Lineplot.png)

The line itself represents the central tendency and the hued area around it a confidence interval for that estimate.

We can conclude that tickets for first class rooms are much more expensive compared to second and third class.
Also the difference between second and third is less pronounced.

Some other plots that might be useful are boxplots, histogams and scatterplots.

```python
from safe_ds.plotting import plot_boxplot, plot_histogram, plot_scatterplot

plot_boxplot(data_cleaned.get_column("Age"))
plot_histogram(data_cleaned.get_column("Fare"))
plot_scatterplot(data_cleaned, "Age", "Fare")
```

![Boxplot](./Resources/Boxplot.png)
![Histogram](./Resources/Histogram.png)
![Scatterplot](./Resources/Scatterplot.png)
