docs/api/safeds/ml/nn/typing/ConstantImageSize.md, before:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

# :test_tube:{ title="Experimental" } <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `ConstantImageSize` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize data-toc-label='[class] ConstantImageSize'}

A container for constant image size in neural networks.

**Parent type:** [`ModelImageSize`][safeds.ml.nn.typing.ModelImageSize]

**Inheritors:**

- [`ImageSize`][safeds.data.image.typing.ImageSize]

??? quote "Stub code in `ConstantImageSize.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="7"
    class ConstantImageSize sub ModelImageSize
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `channel` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize.channel data-toc-label='[attribute] channel'}

Get the channel of this `ImageSize` in pixels.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `height` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize.height data-toc-label='[attribute] height'}

Get the height of this `ImageSize` in pixels.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `width` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize.width data-toc-label='[attribute] width'}

Get the width of this `ImageSize` in pixels.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

Commit message:

docs: add warning to generated files (#1208)
### Summary of Changes

Add a warning at the top of generated documentation files that they must
not be edited directly.

docs/api/safeds/ml/nn/typing/ConstantImageSize.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 0.5
---

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. Instead, edit the corresponding stub file and execute `npm run docs:api`.)

# :test_tube:{ title="Experimental" } <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-class"></code> `ConstantImageSize` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize data-toc-label='[class] ConstantImageSize'}

A container for constant image size in neural networks.

**Parent type:** [`ModelImageSize`][safeds.ml.nn.typing.ModelImageSize]

**Inheritors:**

- [`ImageSize`][safeds.data.image.typing.ImageSize]

??? quote "Stub code in `ConstantImageSize.sdsstub`"

    ```sds linenums="7"
    class ConstantImageSize sub ModelImageSize
    ```

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `channel` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize.channel data-toc-label='[attribute] channel'}

Get the channel of this `ImageSize` in pixels.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `height` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize.height data-toc-label='[attribute] height'}

Get the height of this `ImageSize` in pixels.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]

## <code class="doc-symbol doc-symbol-attribute"></code> `width` {#safeds.ml.nn.typing.ConstantImageSize.width data-toc-label='[attribute] width'}

Get the width of this `ImageSize` in pixels.

**Type:** [`Int`][safeds.lang.Int]
