docs/api/SUMMARY.md, before:

---
search:
  exclude: true
---

- safeds
    - data
        - image
            - containers
                - [Image](safeds/data/image/containers/Image.md)
                - [ImageList](safeds/data/image/containers/ImageList.md)
            - typing
                - [ImageSize](safeds/data/image/typing/ImageSize.md)
        - labeled
            - containers
                - [Dataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/Dataset.md)
                - [ImageDataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/ImageDataset.md)
                - [TabularDataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/TabularDataset.md)
                - [TimeSeriesDataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/TimeSeriesDataset.md)
        - tabular
            - containers
                - [Cell](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Cell.md)
                - [Column](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Column.md)
                - [Row](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Row.md)
                - [StringCell](safeds/data/tabular/containers/StringCell.md)
                - [Table](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Table.md)
            - plotting
                - [ColumnPlotter](safeds/data/tabular/plotting/ColumnPlotter.md)
                - [TablePlotter](safeds/data/tabular/plotting/TablePlotter.md)
            - transformation
                - [Discretizer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/Discretizer.md)
                - [InvertibleTableTransformer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/InvertibleTableTransformer.md)
                - [LabelEncoder](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/LabelEncoder.md)
                - [OneHotEncoder](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/OneHotEncoder.md)
                - [RangeScaler](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/RangeScaler.md)
                - [SimpleImputer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/SimpleImputer.md)
                - [StandardScaler](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/StandardScaler.md)
                - [TableTransformer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/TableTransformer.md)
            - typing
                - [DataType](safeds/data/tabular/typing/DataType.md)
                - [Schema](safeds/data/tabular/typing/Schema.md)
    - lang
        - [AnnotationTarget](safeds/lang/AnnotationTarget.md)
        - [Any](safeds/lang/Any.md)
        - [Boolean](safeds/lang/Boolean.md)
        - [Category](safeds/lang/Category.md)
        - [DataScienceCategory](safeds/lang/DataScienceCategory.md)
        - [Deprecated](safeds/lang/Deprecated.md)
        - [Experimental](safeds/lang/Experimental.md)
        - [Expert](safeds/lang/Expert.md)
        - [Float](safeds/lang/Float.md)
        - [Impure](safeds/lang/Impure.md)
        - [ImpurityReason](safeds/lang/ImpurityReason.md)
        - [Int](safeds/lang/Int.md)
        - [List](safeds/lang/List.md)
        - [Map](safeds/lang/Map.md)
        - [Nothing](safeds/lang/Nothing.md)
        - [Number](safeds/lang/Number.md)
        - [Pure](safeds/lang/Pure.md)
        - [PythonMacro](safeds/lang/PythonMacro.md)
        - [PythonModule](safeds/lang/PythonModule.md)
        - [PythonName](safeds/lang/PythonName.md)
        - [Repeatable](safeds/lang/Repeatable.md)
        - [String](safeds/lang/String.md)
        - [Tags](safeds/lang/Tags.md)
        - [Targets](safeds/lang/Targets.md)
    - ml
        - classical
            - classification
                - [AdaBoostClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/AdaBoostClassifier.md)
                - [Classifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/Classifier.md)
                - [DecisionTreeClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/DecisionTreeClassifier.md)
                - [GradientBoostingClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/GradientBoostingClassifier.md)
                - [KNearestNeighborsClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/KNearestNeighborsClassifier.md)
                - [LogisticClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/LogisticClassifier.md)
                - [RandomForestClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/RandomForestClassifier.md)
                - [SupportVectorClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/SupportVectorClassifier.md)
            - regression
                - [AdaBoostRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/AdaBoostRegressor.md)
                - [ArimaRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/ArimaRegressor.md)
                - [DecisionTreeRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/DecisionTreeRegressor.md)
                - [ElasticNetRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/ElasticNetRegressor.md)
                - [GradientBoostingRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/GradientBoostingRegressor.md)
                - [KNearestNeighborsRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/KNearestNeighborsRegressor.md)
                - [LassoRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/LassoRegressor.md)
                - [LinearRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/LinearRegressor.md)
                - [RandomForestRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/RandomForestRegressor.md)
                - [Regressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/Regressor.md)
                - [RidgeRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/RidgeRegressor.md)
                - [SupportVectorRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/SupportVectorRegressor.md)
            - [SupervisedModel](safeds/ml/classical/SupervisedModel.md)
        - metrics
            - [ClassificationMetrics](safeds/ml/metrics/ClassificationMetrics.md)
            - [RegressionMetrics](safeds/ml/metrics/RegressionMetrics.md)
        - nn
            - converters
                - [InputConversion](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversion.md)
                - [InputConversionImageToColumn](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionImageToColumn.md)
                - [InputConversionImageToImage](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionImageToImage.md)
                - [InputConversionImageToTable](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionImageToTable.md)
                - [InputConversionTable](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionTable.md)
                - [InputConversionTimeSeries](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionTimeSeries.md)
            - layers
                - [AveragePooling2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/AveragePooling2DLayer.md)
                - [Convolutional2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/Convolutional2DLayer.md)
                - [ConvolutionalTranspose2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/ConvolutionalTranspose2DLayer.md)
                - [FlattenLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/FlattenLayer.md)
                - [ForwardLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/ForwardLayer.md)
                - [Layer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/Layer.md)
                - [LSTMLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/LSTMLayer.md)
                - [MaxPooling2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/MaxPooling2DLayer.md)
            - typing
                - [ConstantImageSize](safeds/ml/nn/typing/ConstantImageSize.md)
                - [ModelImageSize](safeds/ml/nn/typing/ModelImageSize.md)
                - [VariableImageSize](safeds/ml/nn/typing/VariableImageSize.md)
            - [NeuralNetworkClassifier](safeds/ml/nn/NeuralNetworkClassifier.md)
            - [NeuralNetworkRegressor](safeds/ml/nn/NeuralNetworkRegressor.md)

Commit message:

docs: add warning to generated files (#1208)
### Summary of Changes

Add a warning at the top of generated documentation files that they must
not be edited directly.

docs/api/SUMMARY.md, after:

---
search:
  exclude: true
---

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY. Instead, edit the corresponding stub file and execute `npm run docs:api`.)

- safeds
    - data
        - image
            - containers
                - [Image](safeds/data/image/containers/Image.md)
                - [ImageList](safeds/data/image/containers/ImageList.md)
            - typing
                - [ImageSize](safeds/data/image/typing/ImageSize.md)
        - labeled
            - containers
                - [Dataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/Dataset.md)
                - [ImageDataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/ImageDataset.md)
                - [TabularDataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/TabularDataset.md)
                - [TimeSeriesDataset](safeds/data/labeled/containers/TimeSeriesDataset.md)
        - tabular
            - containers
                - [Cell](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Cell.md)
                - [Column](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Column.md)
                - [Row](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Row.md)
                - [StringCell](safeds/data/tabular/containers/StringCell.md)
                - [Table](safeds/data/tabular/containers/Table.md)
            - plotting
                - [ColumnPlotter](safeds/data/tabular/plotting/ColumnPlotter.md)
                - [TablePlotter](safeds/data/tabular/plotting/TablePlotter.md)
            - transformation
                - [Discretizer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/Discretizer.md)
                - [InvertibleTableTransformer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/InvertibleTableTransformer.md)
                - [LabelEncoder](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/LabelEncoder.md)
                - [OneHotEncoder](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/OneHotEncoder.md)
                - [RangeScaler](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/RangeScaler.md)
                - [SimpleImputer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/SimpleImputer.md)
                - [StandardScaler](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/StandardScaler.md)
                - [TableTransformer](safeds/data/tabular/transformation/TableTransformer.md)
            - typing
                - [DataType](safeds/data/tabular/typing/DataType.md)
                - [Schema](safeds/data/tabular/typing/Schema.md)
    - lang
        - [AnnotationTarget](safeds/lang/AnnotationTarget.md)
        - [Any](safeds/lang/Any.md)
        - [Boolean](safeds/lang/Boolean.md)
        - [Category](safeds/lang/Category.md)
        - [DataScienceCategory](safeds/lang/DataScienceCategory.md)
        - [Deprecated](safeds/lang/Deprecated.md)
        - [Experimental](safeds/lang/Experimental.md)
        - [Expert](safeds/lang/Expert.md)
        - [Float](safeds/lang/Float.md)
        - [Impure](safeds/lang/Impure.md)
        - [ImpurityReason](safeds/lang/ImpurityReason.md)
        - [Int](safeds/lang/Int.md)
        - [List](safeds/lang/List.md)
        - [Map](safeds/lang/Map.md)
        - [Nothing](safeds/lang/Nothing.md)
        - [Number](safeds/lang/Number.md)
        - [Pure](safeds/lang/Pure.md)
        - [PythonMacro](safeds/lang/PythonMacro.md)
        - [PythonModule](safeds/lang/PythonModule.md)
        - [PythonName](safeds/lang/PythonName.md)
        - [Repeatable](safeds/lang/Repeatable.md)
        - [String](safeds/lang/String.md)
        - [Tags](safeds/lang/Tags.md)
        - [Targets](safeds/lang/Targets.md)
    - ml
        - classical
            - classification
                - [AdaBoostClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/AdaBoostClassifier.md)
                - [Classifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/Classifier.md)
                - [DecisionTreeClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/DecisionTreeClassifier.md)
                - [GradientBoostingClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/GradientBoostingClassifier.md)
                - [KNearestNeighborsClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/KNearestNeighborsClassifier.md)
                - [LogisticClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/LogisticClassifier.md)
                - [RandomForestClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/RandomForestClassifier.md)
                - [SupportVectorClassifier](safeds/ml/classical/classification/SupportVectorClassifier.md)
            - regression
                - [AdaBoostRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/AdaBoostRegressor.md)
                - [ArimaRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/ArimaRegressor.md)
                - [DecisionTreeRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/DecisionTreeRegressor.md)
                - [ElasticNetRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/ElasticNetRegressor.md)
                - [GradientBoostingRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/GradientBoostingRegressor.md)
                - [KNearestNeighborsRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/KNearestNeighborsRegressor.md)
                - [LassoRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/LassoRegressor.md)
                - [LinearRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/LinearRegressor.md)
                - [RandomForestRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/RandomForestRegressor.md)
                - [Regressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/Regressor.md)
                - [RidgeRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/RidgeRegressor.md)
                - [SupportVectorRegressor](safeds/ml/classical/regression/SupportVectorRegressor.md)
            - [SupervisedModel](safeds/ml/classical/SupervisedModel.md)
        - metrics
            - [ClassificationMetrics](safeds/ml/metrics/ClassificationMetrics.md)
            - [RegressionMetrics](safeds/ml/metrics/RegressionMetrics.md)
        - nn
            - converters
                - [InputConversion](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversion.md)
                - [InputConversionImageToColumn](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionImageToColumn.md)
                - [InputConversionImageToImage](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionImageToImage.md)
                - [InputConversionImageToTable](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionImageToTable.md)
                - [InputConversionTable](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionTable.md)
                - [InputConversionTimeSeries](safeds/ml/nn/converters/InputConversionTimeSeries.md)
            - layers
                - [AveragePooling2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/AveragePooling2DLayer.md)
                - [Convolutional2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/Convolutional2DLayer.md)
                - [ConvolutionalTranspose2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/ConvolutionalTranspose2DLayer.md)
                - [FlattenLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/FlattenLayer.md)
                - [ForwardLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/ForwardLayer.md)
                - [Layer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/Layer.md)
                - [LSTMLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/LSTMLayer.md)
                - [MaxPooling2DLayer](safeds/ml/nn/layers/MaxPooling2DLayer.md)
            - typing
                - [ConstantImageSize](safeds/ml/nn/typing/ConstantImageSize.md)
                - [ModelImageSize](safeds/ml/nn/typing/ModelImageSize.md)
                - [VariableImageSize](safeds/ml/nn/typing/VariableImageSize.md)
            - [NeuralNetworkClassifier](safeds/ml/nn/NeuralNetworkClassifier.md)
            - [NeuralNetworkRegressor](safeds/ml/nn/NeuralNetworkRegressor.md)
